Phase 1: Prepare Your Project Files
You need exactly three files in your project folder. Make sure they are all in the exact same folder on your computer.
1. app.py
This is your main Python code containing the entire system.
2. requirements.txt
Create a new text file named exactly requirements.txt.
Paste the following lines into it. (Note: Do NOT include pywebview here, as Render is a cloud server and cannot open Windows desktop apps. It will only use gunicorn for the web).
code
Text
Flask==3.0.2
Flask-SQLAlchemy==3.1.1
psycopg2-binary==2.9.9
gunicorn==21.2.0
3. .gitignore
Create a text file named .gitignore. This stops unnecessary computer files from uploading to the cloud. Paste this inside:
code
Text
__pycache__/
*.pyc
instance/
.env
Phase 2: Upload to GitHub
Render pulls your code directly from a GitHub repository to build your app.
Go toGitHub.com and log in (or create a free account).
Click the "+" icon in the top right corner and select New repository.
Name the repository (e.g., 9599-tea-system) and leave it as Public or Private (either works). Click Create repository.
Click "uploading an existing file" near the top of the Quick Setup screen.
Drag and drop your three files (app.py, requirements.txt, .gitignore) into the browser.
Click Commit changes to save them to GitHub.
Phase 3: Create the PostgreSQL Database on Render
Your local database won't work on the internet, so we need to create a free cloud database.
Go toRender.com and log in using your GitHub account.
Click the "New +" button at the top right and select PostgreSQL.
Fill in the details:
Name: milktea-db
Region: Select the closest one to you (e.g., Singapore or US West).
Instance Type: Free
Click Create Database.
It will take about 1–2 minutes to create. Once it says "Available", scroll down to the Connections section and look for the Internal Database URL.
Click the Copy button next to the Internal Database URL (it will look something like postgres://user:password@host/db). Keep this copied for the next phase.
Phase 4: Create the Web Service (The App)
Now we launch the actual Python code and connect it to the database.
Go back to the main Render Dashboard.
Click "New +" and select Web Service.
Connect your GitHub account, find the 9599-tea-system repository you made, and click Connect.
Fill in the web service settings:
Name: 9599-system (This becomes your actual website link: https://9599-system.onrender.com)
Region: Same region as your database.
Branch: main
Runtime: Python 3
Build Command: pip install -r requirements.txt
Start Command: gunicorn app:app (This tells the cloud to run your app.py file)
Instance Type: Free
5. Add Environment Variables (CRITICAL STEP):
Scroll down and click the Advanced button, then click Add Environment Variable. You need to add 3 variables:
Variable 1:
Key: DATABASE_URL
Value: (Paste the Internal Database URL you copied in Phase 3)
Variable 2:
Key: SECRET_KEY
Value: Type-Any-Random-Long-Password-Here-For-Security
Variable 3:
Key: ADMIN_PIN
Value: 12345 (Or whatever you want your Admin Login PIN to be)
Click Create Web Service at the bottom of the page.
Phase 5: Wait for Deployment
Render will now install Python, install your requirements.txt, and start your server.
You will see a black terminal window scrolling with text. This usually takes about 2 to 5 minutes.
Wait until you see a green log that says: Your service is live 🎉
You're Done!
At the top-left of your Render screen, you will see a link like: https://9599-system.onrender.com.
To log in as the Admin, go to: https://9599-system.onrender.com/admin
Enter your PIN.
Go to the Settings tab, enter your opening/closing hours, and click Validate & Generate Link.
The system will give you the secure customer link. Turn that link into a QR code for your customers to scan!